README.md, before:

# Layout Converter - Key ID System

A high-performance C++ library for converting text between different keyboard layouts using an innovative **Key ID System**.

## 🎯 Key Features

- **Ultra-efficient conversion**: O(1) key position lookup
- **Direct conversion**: No intermediate steps needed
- **Memory efficient**: Only load layouts you need
- **UTF-8 support**: International layouts (Cyrillic, Latin, etc.)
- **Smart detection**: Automatic layout detection
- **Easy extensibility**: Simple to add new layouts

## 🚀 Key ID System

The core innovation is the **Key ID System**:

```
Key ID = FamilyID * 1000 + LayoutID * 100 + KeyPosition
```

**Example:**
- QWERTY 'h' (key 8) → Key ID `1008`
- Workman key 8 → 'y'
- Direct conversion: `1008` → `2008` → 'y'

### Performance Benefits:
- ✅ **3x faster conversion**
- ✅ **50% less memory usage**
- ✅ **90% detection accuracy**

## 📁 Project Structure

```
layout_converter/
├── core/                    # Core C++ library
│   ├── include/
│   │   └── key_system.h    # Key ID system header
│   └── src/
│       └── key_system.cpp  # Key ID system implementation
├── cli/                     # Command-line interface
├── tests/                   # Unit tests
├── data/
│   └── layouts/            # Layout definitions
│       ├── qwerty.json
│       ├── workman.json
│       └── russian.json
└── scripts/                # Utility scripts
```

## 🛠️ Building

### Prerequisites
- CMake 3.15+
- C++17 compiler
- Python 3 (for scripts)

### Build Steps
```bash
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make
```

### Running Tests
```bash
make test
```

## 📖 Usage

### Command Line Interface
```bash
# Convert text between layouts
./layout_converter "hello" --from qwerty --to workman

# Auto-detect layouts
./layout_converter "привет" --detect

# Show help
./layout_converter --help
```

### C++ API
```cpp
#include "key_system.h"

layout_converter::KeyBasedLayoutLibrary library;

// Convert text
std::string result = library.convert_text("hello", "qwerty", "workman");

// Detect layouts
auto detected = library.detect_likely_layouts("привет");
```

## 🎨 Supported Layouts

### Latin Family (Family ID: 1)
- **QWERTY** (Layout ID: 1) - Standard English layout
- **Workman** (Layout ID: 2) - Optimized for English

### Cyrillic Family (Family ID: 2)
- **Russian** (Layout ID: 1) - Standard Russian layout

## 🔧 Adding New Layouts

1. Create a JSON file in `data/layouts/`
2. Define family_id, layout_id, and key_mappings
3. The system automatically supports the new layout

**Example:**
```json
{
  "id": "colemak",
  "name": "Colemak",
  "family_id": 1,
  "layout_id": 3,
  "key_mappings": {
    "1301": "q", "1302": "w", "1303": "f", ...
  }
}
```

## 🧪 Testing

Run the test suite:
```bash
cd build
make test
```

Or run the advanced demo:
```bash
g++ -std=c++17 -o demo test_key_system_advanced.cpp
./demo
```

## 📈 Performance

| Metric | Old System | Key ID System | Improvement |
|--------|------------|---------------|-------------|
| Conversion Speed | O(n) | O(1) | 3x faster |
| Memory Usage | High | Low | 50% less |
| Detection Accuracy | 60% | 90% | 50% better |

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Add tests for new functionality
4. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

## 🎯 Roadmap

- [ ] macOS add-on integration
- [ ] Web UI development
- [ ] More layout families (Hindi, Arabic, Chinese)
- [ ] AI-powered layout prediction
- [ ] Mobile app development

Commit message:

⚠️ Add WORK IN PROGRESS notice to README
- Indicate app is not ready for production use yet
- Core algorithm demo is available
- CLI and full app coming soon

README.md, after:

# Layout Converter - Key ID System

> **⚠️ WORK IN PROGRESS** ⚠️
> 
> This app is not ready for production use yet. The core Key ID System algorithm is implemented and working, but the full application is still under development.
> 
> **Current Status:** Core algorithm demo available, CLI and full app coming soon.

---

A high-performance C++ library for converting text between different keyboard layouts using an innovative **Key ID System**.

## 🎯 Key Features

- **Ultra-efficient conversion**: O(1) key position lookup
- **Direct conversion**: No intermediate steps needed
- **Memory efficient**: Only load layouts you need
- **UTF-8 support**: International layouts (Cyrillic, Latin, etc.)
- **Smart detection**: Automatic layout detection
- **Easy extensibility**: Simple to add new layouts

## 🚀 Key ID System

The core innovation is the **Key ID System**:

```
Key ID = FamilyID * 1000 + LayoutID * 100 + KeyPosition
```

**Example:**
- QWERTY 'h' (key 8) → Key ID `1008`
- Workman key 8 → 'y'
- Direct conversion: `1008` → `2008` → 'y'

### Performance Benefits:
- ✅ **3x faster conversion**
- ✅ **50% less memory usage**
- ✅ **90% detection accuracy**

## 📁 Project Structure

```
layout_converter/
├── core/                    # Core C++ library
│   ├── include/
│   │   └── key_system.h    # Key ID system header
│   └── src/
│       └── key_system.cpp  # Key ID system implementation
├── cli/                     # Command-line interface
├── tests/                   # Unit tests
├── data/
│   └── layouts/            # Layout definitions
│       ├── qwerty.json
│       ├── workman.json
│       └── russian.json
└── scripts/                # Utility scripts
```

## 🛠️ Building

### Prerequisites
- CMake 3.15+
- C++17 compiler
- Python 3 (for scripts)

### Build Steps
```bash
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make
```

### Running Tests
```bash
make test
```

## 📖 Usage

### Command Line Interface
```bash
# Convert text between layouts
./layout_converter "hello" --from qwerty --to workman

# Auto-detect layouts
./layout_converter "привет" --detect

# Show help
./layout_converter --help
```

### C++ API
```cpp
#include "key_system.h"

layout_converter::KeyBasedLayoutLibrary library;

// Convert text
std::string result = library.convert_text("hello", "qwerty", "workman");

// Detect layouts
auto detected = library.detect_likely_layouts("привет");
```

## 🎨 Supported Layouts

### Latin Family (Family ID: 1)
- **QWERTY** (Layout ID: 1) - Standard English layout
- **Workman** (Layout ID: 2) - Optimized for English

### Cyrillic Family (Family ID: 2)
- **Russian** (Layout ID: 1) - Standard Russian layout

## 🔧 Adding New Layouts

1. Create a JSON file in `data/layouts/`
2. Define family_id, layout_id, and key_mappings
3. The system automatically supports the new layout

**Example:**
```json
{
  "id": "colemak",
  "name": "Colemak",
  "family_id": 1,
  "layout_id": 3,
  "key_mappings": {
    "1301": "q", "1302": "w", "1303": "f", ...
  }
}
```

## 🧪 Testing

Run the test suite:
```bash
cd build
make test
```

Or run the advanced demo:
```bash
g++ -std=c++17 -o demo test_key_system_advanced.cpp
./demo
```

## 📈 Performance

| Metric | Old System | Key ID System | Improvement |
|--------|------------|---------------|-------------|
| Conversion Speed | O(n) | O(1) | 3x faster |
| Memory Usage | High | Low | 50% less |
| Detection Accuracy | 60% | 90% | 50% better |

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Add tests for new functionality
4. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

## 🎯 Roadmap

- [ ] macOS add-on integration
- [ ] Web UI development
- [ ] More layout families (Hindi, Arabic, Chinese)
- [ ] AI-powered layout prediction
- [ ] Mobile app development
